[Focus Mode] New images and content for the DOM getting started guide (#2884)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/dom/index.md

Reviewer: Global (d/k if 1 hit only): key names should be bold, not backtick.

Change from:
Press the `H` key.
to:
Press the **H** key.

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/dom/?branch=pr-en-us-2884#hide-a-node

Reviewer: Global: use colon, not period, for lead-in sentence before a screenshot.

   limitations under the License.  -->
# Get started viewing and changing the DOM

To learn the basics of viewing and changing the [Document Object Model](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model) (DOM) of a page using Microsoft Edge DevTools, follow these interactive tutorial sections.

To understand the difference between the DOM and HTML, see [Appendix: HTML versus the DOM](#appendix-html-versus-the-dom), below.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## View DOM nodes

The DOM Tree of the **Elements** tool is where you do all DOM-related activities in DevTools.

#### Inspect a node

When you are interested in a particular DOM node, **Inspect** is a fast way to open DevTools and investigate that node.

> 1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.  To do this, right-click the link, or press and hold **Ctrl** (Windows, Linux) or **Command** (macOS) and then click the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.
```
"the link" is ambiguous - the link in previous sentence, or some link in Demos nav page?
We can probably assume user can figure out to right-click the provided link and examine the menuitems.  Instead of mixing-in basics of how to click a link, into these instructions.

> 1. In the rendered webpage, under **Inspect a Node**, right-click **Michelangelo** and then select **Inspect**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the rendered webpage, under **Inspect a Node**, right-click **Michelangelo** and then select **Inspect**:
```

   ![Inspecting a node](./index-images/michelangelo-inspect.png)

>    The **Elements** tool of DevTools opens.  `<p>Michelangelo</p>` node is highlighted in the **DOM Tree**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The **Elements** tool of DevTools opens.  The `<p>Michelangelo</p>` node is highlighted in the **DOM Tree**:
```

   ![Highlighting the Michelangelo node](./index-images/michelangelo-elements-highlighted.png)

> 1. Click the **Inspect** (![Inspect](./index-images/inspect-tool-icon-light-theme.png)) icon in the top-left corner of DevTools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Inspect** (![Inspect](./index-images/inspect-tool-icon-light-theme.png)) icon in the top-left corner of DevTools:
```

#### Navigate the DOM Tree with a keyboard

Once you have selected a node in the DOM Tree, you can navigate the DOM Tree with your keyboard.

1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.

1. In the rendered webpage, under **Navigate the DOM Tree with a Keyboard**, right-click **Ringo** and then select **Inspect**.  `<p>Ringo</p>` is selected in the DOM Tree.

   ![Inspecting the 'Ringo' node](./index-images/navigate-dom-tree-keyboard-ringo.png)

1. Press the **Up Arrow** key two times.  `<div>` is selected.

   ![Inspecting the 'div' node](./index-images/navigate-dom-tree-keyboard-ul.png)

1. Press the **Left Arrow** key.  The `<div>` list collapses.

1. Press the **Left Arrow** key again.  The parent of the `<div>` node is selected.  In this case, it's the `<section>` that has the ID `navigate-the-dom-tree-with-a-keyboard-1`.

1. Press the **Down Arrow** key two times, so that you have re-selected the `<div>` list that you just collapsed.

   It should look like this: `<div>... </div>`.

1. Press the **Right Arrow** key.  The list expands.

#### Scroll into view

> When viewing the DOM Tree, you may find yourself interested in a DOM node that isn't currently visible in the rendered webpage.  For example, suppose that you scrolled to the bottom of the page, and you're interested in the `<h1>` node at the top of the page.  **Scroll into view** lets you quickly reposition the viewport so that you can review the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewing the DOM Tree, you may find yourself interested in a DOM node that isn't currently visible in the rendered webpage.  For example, suppose that you scrolled to the bottom of the page, and you're interested in the `<h1>` node at the top of the page.  **Scroll into view** lets you quickly reposition the viewport so that you can see the node.
```
'review' has a particular narrow meaning that's probably not meant here

1. The `<p>Magritte</p>` node should still be selected in your DOM Tree.  If not, go back to [Scroll into view](#scroll-into-view) and start over.

> 1. Right-click the `<p>Magritte</p>` node, and then click **Scroll into view**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right-click the `<p>Magritte</p>` node, and then select **Scroll into view**:
```
the pattern i've used, fwiw

   ![Scroll into view](./index-images/scroll-into-view-dropdown.png)
   
   Your viewport scrolls back up to display the **Magritte** node.  See [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options) if the **Scroll into view** option isn't displayed.

#### Search for nodes

You can search the DOM Tree by string, CSS selector, or XPath selector.

1. Focus your cursor on the **Elements** tool, such as by clicking the **Elements** tab.

1. Press **Ctrl+F** (Windows, Linux) or **Command+F** (macOS).  The Search bar opens at the bottom of the DOM Tree.

1. Type **The Moon is a Harsh Mistress**.  The last sentence is highlighted in the DOM Tree:

   ![Highlighting the query in the Search bar](./index-images/search-nodes-highlight.png)

The Search bar also supports CSS and XPath selectors.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Edit the DOM

You can edit the DOM in DevTools and view how the changes affect the page in real time.

#### Edit text content

> To edit the text content of a node, double-click the content in the DOM Tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit the text content of a node, double-click the content in the DOM Tree, as follows:
```
somewhat boilerplate fluff, but it earns its wordcount b/c helps glue flow and confirm that the list expands the high-level instruction lead-in.

1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.

1. In the rendered webpage, under **Edit Content**, right-click **Michelle** and then select **Inspect**.

> 1. In the DOM Tree, double-click `Michelle`.  In other words, double-click the text between `<p>` and `</p>`.  The text is highlighted to indicate that it is selected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the DOM Tree, double-click the text `Michelle`, between the `<p>` and `</p>` tags.  The text is highlighted to indicate that it's selected:
```

   ![Edit the text](./index-images/edit-content.png)

> 1. Delete `Michelle`, type `Leela`, then press **Enter** to confirm the change.  The text in the DOM changes from **Michelle** to **Leela**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Delete `Michelle`, type `Leela`, then press **Enter** to confirm the change.  The text in the DOM changes from **Michelle** to **Leela**.

1. Press **Ctrl+S** to save changes.
```
tech review this added step

> #### Edit attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Edit or add attributes
```
i found heading vs. paragraph 1 confusing: are we altering an existing attribute, or adding a new attribute?

> To edit attributes, double-click the attribute name or value.  Follow the instructions to learn how to add attributes to a node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit an existing attribute, double-click the attribute name or value.  To add a new attribute, double-click the element for which to add an attribute, as follows:
```

1. Right-click the `<p>Magritte</p>` node, and then click **Scroll into view**.  Your viewport scrolls back up to display the **Magritte** node.  See [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options) if the **Scroll into view** option isn't displayed.

![Scroll into view](./index-images/scroll-into-view-dropdown.png)

#### Search for nodes

You can search the DOM Tree by string, CSS selector, or XPath selector.

> 1. Focus your cursor on the **Elements** tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Focus your cursor on the **Elements** tool, such as by clicking the **Elements** tab.
```

> 1. Double-click `<p>`.  The text is highlighted to indicate that the node is selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Double-click `<p>`.  The text is highlighted to indicate that the node is selected:
```
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/dom/?branch=pr-en-us-2884#edit-attributes

   ![Edit the node](./index-images/edit-attributes-highlighted.png)

> 1. Press the **Right Arrow** key, add a space, type `style="background-color:gold"`, and then press **Enter**.  The background color of the node changes to gold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press the **Right Arrow** key, add a space, type `style="background-color:gold"`, and then press **Enter**.  The background color of the node changes to gold:
```

1. Double-click `<p>`.  The text `p` is highlighted.

1. Delete `p`, type `button`, then press **Enter**.  The `<p>` node changes to a `<button>` node:

   ![Change the node type to button](./index-images/edit-node-type-button.png)

#### Edit multiple nodes, text, and attributes 

> To change the tag name, text content, or attributes of multiple nodes at once, you can edit part of the DOM using an HTML text editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the tag name, text content, or attributes of multiple nodes at once, you can edit part of the DOM using an HTML text editor, as follows:
```
AND, delete line "To use the HTML editor:" (can't do in this Suggestion)

> 

Reviewer: delete line 170:
To use the HTML editor:
(can't do in this Suggestion UI)

   ![The new DOM tree, with the an extra <p> node, after the HTML editor closed](./index-images/edit-html-editor-closed.png)

#### Reorder DOM nodes

To reorder nodes in the DOM tree, drag the nodes, as follows:

1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.

1. In the rendered webpage, under **Reorder DOM Nodes**, right-click **Elvis Presley** and then select **Inspect**.

1. In the DOM Tree, drag `<p>Elvis Presley</p>` to the top of the list:

   ![Drag the node to the top of the list](./index-images/reorder-dom-nodes.png)

#### Force state

You can force nodes to remain in states including `:active`, `:hover`, `:focus`, `:visited`, and `:focus-within`, as follows:

1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.

1. In the rendered webpage, under **Force state**, hover on **The Lord of the Flies**.  The background color becomes orange.

1. Right-click **The Lord of the Flies**, and then select **Inspect**.

> 1. Right-click `<p class="demo--hover">The Lord of the Flies</p>`, and then select **Force State** > **:hover**.  If that option isn't displayed, see [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options).  The background color remains orange even though you aren't actually hovering over the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right-click `<p class="demo--hover">The Lord of the Flies</p>`, and then select **Force State** > **:hover**.  If that option isn't displayed, see [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options), below.  The background color remains orange, even though you aren't actually hovering over the node.
```

1. In the rendered webpage, right-click in the **Edit Content, Tag Name, and Attributes** section, and then select **Inspect**.

> 1. In the DOM Tree, right-click the `<section id="edit-as-html-1">` node, and then select **Edit as HTML**. The HTML editor appears within the DOM tree, with a box around the section that's being edited:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the DOM Tree, right-click the `<section id="edit-as-html-1">` node, and then select **Edit as HTML**. The DOM's HTML editor appears within the DOM tree, with a box around the section that's being edited:
```
clarifies, for me (esp. in the low-context Markdown view)

> 1. In the DOM Tree, right-click the `<section id="edit-as-html-1">` node and select **Edit as HTML**. The HTML editor appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the DOM Tree, right-click the `<section id="edit-as-html-1">` node, and then select **Edit as HTML**. The HTML editor appears:
```
not sure if this is a lead-in for png, needing colon.
Rendered:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/dom/?branch=pr-en-us-2884#edit-multiple-nodes-text-and-attributes

>    For example, try adding `<p>Dijon</p>` after the `<p>Marseille</p>` line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For example, try adding `<p>Dijon</p>` after the `<p>Marseille</p>` line.
```
tutorial type steps need to be clear whether we are or are not telling user to do an action.  if telling to do a step, needs to be a numbered paragraph.

> 1. Press **Ctrl+Enter** to apply the changes to the DOM tree and close the HTML editor:

Reviewer: obscure.  is there a GUI way?  a right-click menuitem?  some alternative to memorizing a keyboard shortcut that's more complex/non-standardized than Enter or Ctrl+F?

> 1. Press **Ctrl+Enter** to apply the changes to the DOM tree and close the HTML editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **Ctrl+Enter**, or click the DOM tree outside the HTML editor.  Your edits are applied to the DOM tree and rendered webpage, and the DOM tree's HTML editor closes:
```

> 1. Type **Ctrl+Enter** to apply the changes to the DOM tree and close the HTML editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **Ctrl+Enter** to apply the changes to the DOM tree and close the HTML editor.
```

   ![The new DOM tree, with the an extra <p> node, after the HTML editor closed](./index-images/edit-html-editor-closed.png)

#### Reorder DOM nodes

> Drag nodes to reorder them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reorder nodes in the DOM tree, drag the nodes, as follows.
```

> 1. In the DOM Tree, drag `<p>Elvis Presley</p>` to the top of the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the DOM Tree, drag `<p>Elvis Presley</p>` to the top of the list:
```

![Drag the node to the top of the list](./index-images/reorder-dom-nodes.png)

#### Force state

> You can force nodes to remain in states including `:active`, `:hover`, `:focus`, `:visited`, and `:focus-within`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can force nodes to remain in states including `:active`, `:hover`, `:focus`, `:visited`, and `:focus-within`, as follows:
```
:foo: at end looks confusing:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/dom/?branch=pr-en-us-2884#force-state

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Access nodes in the Console

DevTools provides a few shortcuts for accessing DOM nodes from the **Console** tool, or getting JavaScript references to each one.

#### Reference the currently-selected node with $0

When you inspect a node, the `== $0` text next to the node means that you can reference this node in the Console with the variable `$0`.

1. Open the [DOM Examples](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/devtools-dom-get-started/) demo page in a new window or tab.

1. In the rendered webpage, under **Reference the currently-selected node with $0**, right-click **The Left Hand of Darkness** and then select **Inspect**.

1. Press the **Esc** key to open the **Console** tool in the Quick View panel.

1. Type `$0` and press **Enter**.  The result of the expression shows that `$0` evaluates to `<p>The Left Hand of Darkness</p>`:

   ![The result of the first $0 expression in the Console](./index-images/reference-currently-selected-node-console-1.png)

> 1. Hover on the result.  The node is highlighted in the viewport.

Reviewer: Global: use "hover over" (like older version of doc), not "hover on".
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/term-collections/mouse-mouse-interaction-terms
```suggestion
1. Hover over the result.  The node is highlighted in the viewport.
```

> 1. Right-click `<p>The Big Sleep</p>` in the DOM Tree, and then select **Store as global variable**.  See [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options) if the option isn't displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Right-click `<p>The Big Sleep</p>` in the DOM Tree, and then select **Store as global variable**.  If that option isn't displayed, see [Appendix: Missing options](#appendix-missing-options), below.
```
instead of reversed pattern:
Do A, B, and then C, if X.

1. Select **Resume Script** (![Resume Script](./index-images/resume-script-icon.png)).

#### Break on subtree modifications

After you put a subtree modification breakpoint on a node, DevTools pauses the page when any of the descendants of the node are added or removed.

> 

Reviewer: 359: change from:
See [Elements panel keyboard shortcuts](../shortcuts/index.md#elements-tool-keyboard-shortcuts).
to:
See [Elements tool keyboard shortcuts](../shortcuts/index.md#elements-tool-keyboard-shortcuts).
